# Credit Card Fraud Detection

This project aims to detect fraudulent credit card transactions using machine learning techniques. It utilizes a dataset containing credit card transactions, with features like transaction amount, time, and various anonymized features obtained from PCA transformation. The goal is to build a model that can accurately classify transactions as either legitimate or fraudulent.

## Overview

Credit card fraud poses a significant challenge for financial institutions and customers alike. Detecting fraudulent transactions is crucial for preventing financial losses and maintaining customer trust. Machine learning algorithms offer an effective way to automate the detection process and identify suspicious activities.

This project focuses on creating a machine learning model to classify credit card transactions as either legitimate or fraudulent. By analyzing transaction features such as amount, time, and anonymized variables, the model aims to accurately predict fraudulent transactions in real-time.

## Dataset

The dataset used in this project contains credit card transactions made by European cardholders. It includes features generated by PCA transformation due to confidentiality issues. The dataset is highly unbalanced, with a vast majority of legitimate transactions compared to fraudulent ones.

**Note:** Due to its large size, the dataset is not included in the repository. You can download it from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud).

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/AbhishekSrivastava1999/Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection.git
    ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection
    ```

3. Install Python packages:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### Running the Notebook

4. Start Jupyter Notebook to open the project file:

    ```bash
    jupyter notebook Credit_Card_Fraud_Detection.ipynb
    ```

## Acknowledgements

This project was completed as part of a data science course and benefited from various online tutorials and resources. Special thanks to the dataset providers and the open-source community for their contributions.

